Unknown option -h.

sbf2rin -f input_file [-o output_file][-l][-O CCC][-R3][-R210][-n type][-MET]
                      [-i interval][-b startepoch][-e endepoch][-s][-D][-X][-c]
                      [-C commentstr][-x systems][-I siglist][-E siglist]
                      [-a antenna][-ma][-mf][-noevent][-S][-v][-V]

  -f input_file   (mandatory) Name of the SBF file(s) to be converted. To convert
                  multiple files, use a whitespace as delimiter between the different
                  file names.  Each SBF file is converted into a different RINEX file.
  -o output_file  Name of the output RINEX file, bypassing the standard naming convention.
                  See file naming convention below.
                  Note: do not use a forced output file name when converting multiple files.
  -l              Use long file naming convention (introduced in RINEX v3.02).
                  Default is short file name.  See below.
  -O CCC          Force using the specified 3-letter country code in
                  the long file name.  This option is ignored if the -l
                  option is not used.
  -R[3|210]       By default, sbf2rin converts to RINEX v2.11.  Use -R3 to
                  convert to the last revision (currently v3.03), and -R210
                  to convert to v2.10.
  -n type         Type of files to be generated.  type is a combination of the
                  following characters:
                    O for an observation file (this is the default),
                    N for a GPS-only navigation file,
                    G for a GLONASS-only navigation file,
                    E for a Galileo-only navigation file (always RINEX v3.xx),
                    H for a SBAS-only navigation file,
                    I for a BeiDou-only navigation file (always RINEX v3.xx),
                    P for a mixed GNSS navigation file (always RINEX v3.xx),
                    B for a broadcast SBAS file (all L1 and L5 messages),
                    Bvalidonly for a broadcast SBAS file (valid CRC only),
                    M for a meteo file.
                  Note that QZSS navigation data is only available in mixed
                  files.
                  If multiple characters are combined, all the requested
                  RINEX files are generated at once. For example -nPOM generates obs,
                  mixed nav and meteo files.
  -MET            Generate a RINEX meteo file (same as -nM).
  -i interval     Interval in the RINEX obs and meteo file, in seconds
                  (by default, the interval is the same as in the SBF file).
  -b startepoch   Time of first epoch to insert in the RINEX file.
                  Format: yyyy-mm-dd_hh:mm:ss or hh:mm:ss.
  -e endepoch     Last epoch to insert in the RINEX file
                  Format: yyyy-mm-dd_hh:mm:ss or hh:mm:ss.
  -s              Include the Sx obs types in the observation file.
  -D              Include the Dx obs types in the observation file.
  -X              Include the X1 obs types (channel number) in the observation file.
                  (option only available when generating RINEX v3.xx files).
  -c              Allow comments in the RINEX file (from the Comment SBF
                  block)
  -C commentstr   Add the specified comment string to the RINEX obs header.
                  The comment string must not be longer than 240 characters.
                  Enclose the string between quotes if it contains
                  whitespaces.
  -x systems      Exclude one or more satellite systems from the obs file or
                  from the mixed navigation file.
                  systems may be G (GPS), R (Glonass), E (Galileo), S (SBAS),
                  C (Compass/Beidou), J (QZSS), I (IRNSS) or any combination
                  thereof.  For instance, -xERSCJI produces a GPS-only file.
  -I siglist      Include only the observables from the specified signal types.
                  By default all observables in the SBF file are converted to RINEX.
                  siglist is a list of signal types separated by "+" and without
                  whitespaces.  The available signal types are:
                  GPSL1CA, GPSL1P, GPSL2P, GPSL2C, GPSL5, GPSL1C,
                  GLOL1CA, GLOL1P, GLOL2P, GLOL2CA, GLOL3,
                  GALE1, GALE5a, GALE5b, GALE5, GALE6,
                  BDSB1I, BDSB2I, BDSB3I,
                  QZSL1CA, QZSL2C, QZSL5, QZSL1C, QZSL1S,
                  SBSL1, SBSL5,
                  IRNL5.
                  For example: -I GPSL1CA+GLOL1CA
  -E siglist      Exclude the observables from the specified signal types.
                  See the -I argument for a definition of siglist.
  -a antenna      Convert data from the specified antenna (antenna is 1, 2
                  or 3). The default is 1, corresponding to the main antenna.
  -ma             Insert a "start moving" event right after the header if
                  the RINEX file contains kinematic data.
  -mf             Force inserting a "start moving" event right after the
                  header.
  -noevent        Do not report external events in RINEX.  Default is to
                  report external events in comment strings.
  -S              Automatically increase the file sequence character in
                  the output file name when converting multiple files from
                  the same marker and the same day.   This option is ignored
                  if the -l or the -o option is also selected.
  -v              Run in verbose mode.
  -V              Display the sbf2rin version.


Note on the L2 observables in RINEX v2.11
----------------------------------------

 For GPS satellites, sbf2rin by default encodes L2P carrier phases as L2 observables.
 If the SBF file does not contain any L2P carrier phase, or if L2P is disabled
 with the -I or -E options, L2C carrier phases are encoded instead.

 For GLONASS satellites, sbf2rin by default encodes L2CA carrier phases as L2 observables.
 If the SBF file does not contain any L2CA carrier phase, or if L2CA is disabled
 with the -I or -E options, L2P carrier phases are encoded instead.

 Note that this is only applicable to RINEX v2.11.  RINEX v2.10 only contains L2P
 carrier phases, and RINEX v3 can contain both.


RINEX file naming convention
----------------------------

 By default, the RINEX 2.x naming convention is applied and the output file name
 is of the form SSSSDDDF.YYT, where SSSS is the station designator taken from
 the StationCode field of the ReceiverSetup SBF block, DDD is the day of
 year, F is the file sequence character, YY is the year and T is the
 file type.  F is always 0 except when the -S option is used.  T can
 be one of the following:
    O: Observation file (default)
    N: GPS navigation file (option -nN)
    G: GLONASS navigation file (option -nG)
    L: Galileo navigation file (option -nE)
    H: SBAS navigation file (option -nH)
    I: Beidou navigation file (option -nI) (Note that this extension is
       non-standard)
    P: Mixed-constellation navigation file (option -nP)
    B: SBAS broadcast data file (option -nB)
    M: Meteorological data file (option -MET)
 
 With the "-o copy" option, the name of the RINEX file is a copy of the
 name of the SBF file, with only the last character being changed to the file
 type character as defined above.
 
 With the "-o copybase" option, the name of the RINEX file is a copy of
 the name of the SBF file, with the last 3 characters being set to "YYT".
 
 With the -l option, the file name conforms to the long file name convention
 introduced with RINEX v3.02.  The station designator and the country code
 are taken from the ReceiverSetup SBF block.  The country code can be
 overwritten with the -O argument.

 The RINEX files are put in the current directory.
